docs: ui.tabs (#943)
deephaven/deephaven-plugins: plugins/ui/docs/components/tabs.md

# Tabs

Tabs organize related content into sections, allowing users to navigate between them.

## Example

```python
from deephaven import ui, empty_table

my_tabs_basic = ui.tabs(
    ui.tab("Hello World!", title="Tab 1"),
    ui.tab(
        ui.flex(
            "Hello World with table!",
            ui.flex(empty_table(10).update("I=i")),
        ),
        title="Tab 2",
    ),
)
```

## UI Recommendations

1. Use tabs to organize sections of equal importance. Avoid using tabs for content with varying levels of importance.
2. Use a vertical tabs layout when displaying shortcuts to sections of content on a single page.

> 3. Avoid nesting tabs more than three levels deep, as it can become overly complicated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Avoid nesting tabs more than two levels deep, as it can become overly complicated.
```

I would count stacks as one level already.

## Content

> Tabs can be created using `ui.tab` or `ui.tab_list` and `ui.tab_panels`, but not both combined. 

Reviewer 2: using `ui.tab`, or `ui.tab_list` with `ui.tab_panels`? It's not clear which can't be combined.

If wanting a default tab layout with minimal customization for tab apperance, tabs should be created by passing in `ui.tab` to `ui.tabs`.

Note that both the `ui.tab` component can only be used within `ui.tabs`.

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_tabs_tab_content_example = ui.tabs(
    ui.tab("Arma virumque cano, Troiae qui primus ab oris.", title="Founding of Rome"),
    ui.tab("Senatus Populusque Romanus.", title="Monarchy and Republic"),
    ui.tab("Alea jacta est.", title="Empire"),
)
```

For more control over the layout, types, and styling of the tabs, they should be created `ui.tab_list` and `ui.tab_panels` with `ui.tabs`. 

The `ui.tab_list` specifies the titles of the tabs, while the `ui.tab_panels` specify the content within each of the tab panels.

> When specifying tabs using the `ui.tab_list` and `ui.tab_panels`, keys must be provided and match for each of the respective tabs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When specifying tabs using `ui.tab_list` and `ui.tab_panels`, keys must be provided that match each of the respective tabs.
```

```python

> from deephaven import ui

Author: Hmmm yeah, should I create a ticket to change this?

            ),
            key="Key 2",
        ),
        flex_grow=1,
        position="relative",
    ),
    flex_grow=1,
    margin_bottom="size-400",
)
```

Note that both the `ui.tab_list` and `ui.tab_panels` components can also only be used within `ui.tabs`.

## Selection

With tabs, the `default_selected_key` or `selected_key` props can be set to have a selected tab.

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_tabs_selected_key_examples():
    selected_tab, set_selected_tab = ui.use_state("Tab 1")
    return [
        "Pick a tab (uncontrolled)",
        ui.tabs(
            ui.tab(
                "There is no prior chat history with John Doe.",
                title="John Doe",
                key="Tab 1",
            ),
            ui.tab(
                "There is no prior chat history with Jane Doe.",
                title="Jane Doe",
                key="Tab 2",
            ),
            ui.tab(
                "There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.",
                title="Joe Bloggs",
                key="Tab 3",
            ),
            default_selected_key="Tab 2",
        ),

>         "Pick a tab (controlled)",

Reviewer: f string in the selected_tab key as "Pick a tab (controlled), selected tab: {...}"

                key="Tab 2",
            ),
            ui.tab(
                "There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.",
                title="Joe Bloggs",
                key="Tab 3",
            ),
            selected_key=selected_tab,
            on_selection_change=set_selected_tab,
        ),
    ]

my_tabs_selected_key_examples = ui_tabs_selected_key_examples()
```

## Events

The `on_change` property is triggered whenever the currently selected tab changes.

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_tabs_on_change_example():
    selected_tab, set_selected_tab = ui.use_state("Tab 1")
    return [
        ui.tabs(
            ui.tab(
                "There is no prior chat history with John Doe.",
                title="John Doe",
                key="Tab 1",
            ),
            ui.tab(
                "There is no prior chat history with Jane Doe.",
                title="Jane Doe",
                key="Tab 2",
            ),
            ui.tab(
                "There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.",
                title="Joe Bloggs",
                key="Tab 3",
            ),
            selected_key=selected_tab,

>             on_selection_change=set_selected_tab,

Reviewer: This is basically the same as the last example, anything we could show different?

By default, pressing the arrow keys while currently focused on a tab will automatically switch selection to the adjacent tab in that key's direction.

To prevent this automatic selection change, the `keyboard_activation` prop can be set to "manual".

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_tabs_keyboard_activation_example = ui.tabs(
    ui.tab("Arma virumque cano, Troiae qui primus ab oris.", title="Founding of Rome"),
    ui.tab("Senatus Populusque Romanus.", title="Monarchy and Republic"),
    ui.tab("Alea jacta est.", title="Empire"),
    keyboard_activation="manual",
)
```

## Density

By default, the density of the tab list is "compact". To change this, the `density` prop can be set to "regular".

The difference in the spacing can be observed in the following example.

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_tabs_density_examples():
    return [
        ui.tabs(
            ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with John Doe.", title="John Doe"),
            ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with Jane Doe.", title="Jane Doe"),
            ui.tab(
                "There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.", title="Joe Bloggs"
            ),

>             density="regular",

Reviewer: implementation question:

It doesn't error if I pass an invalid density prop, should it?

@jnumainville

        ),
        ui.tabs(
            ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with John Doe.", title="John Doe"),
            ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with Jane Doe.", title="Jane Doe"),
            ui.tab(
                "There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.", title="Joe Bloggs"
            ),
        ),
    ]

my_tabs_density_examples = ui_tabs_density_examples()
```

## Quiet State

> The `is_quiet` prop makes tabs "quiet", by removing the line seperating the tab titles' and panel contents. This can be useful when the tabs  should not distract users from surrounding content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `is_quiet` prop makes tabs "quiet" by removing the line separating the tab titles' and panel contents. This can be useful when the tabs should not distract users from surrounding content.
```

    ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with John Doe.", title="John Doe"),
    ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with Jane Doe.", title="Jane Doe"),
    ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.", title="Joe Bloggs"),
    is_disabled=True,
)
```

## Orientation

By default, tabs are horizontally oriented. To have tabs be vertically orientated, the `orientation` prop can be set to "vertical".

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_tabs_orientation_examples():
    return [
        ui.tabs(
            ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with John Doe.", title="John Doe"),
            ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with Jane Doe.", title="Jane Doe"),
            ui.tab(
                "There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.", title="Joe Bloggs"
            ),
            orientation="vertical",
        ),
        ui.tabs(
            ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with John Doe.", title="John Doe"),
            ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with Jane Doe.", title="Jane Doe"),
            ui.tab(
                "There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.", title="Joe Bloggs"
            ),

>         ),

Reviewer: No need to show the regular state here, that's already clear.

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_tabs_on_change_example():
    selected_tab, set_selected_tab = ui.use_state("Tab 1")

    def get_background_color(tab):
        if tab == "Tab 1":
            return "celery-500"
        elif tab == "Tab 2":
            return "fuchsia-500"
        elif tab == "Tab 3":
            return "blue-500"
        else:
            return "gray-200"

    return [
        ui.view(
            ui.tabs(
                ui.tab(
                    "There is no prior chat history with John Doe.",
                    title="John Doe",
                    key="Tab 1",
                ),
                ui.tab(
                    "There is no prior chat history with Jane Doe.",
                    title="Jane Doe",
                    key="Tab 2",
                ),
                ui.tab(
                    "There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.",
                    title="Joe Bloggs",
                    key="Tab 3",
                ),
                selected_key=selected_tab,
                on_selection_change=set_selected_tab,
            ),

>             background_color=get_background_color(selected_tab),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            background_color=get_background_color(selected_tab),
            flex="auto",
            width="100%",
```

For additional styling only, makes it take the full space.

# Tabs

Tabs organize related content into sections within panels, allowing users to navigate between them.

## Example

```python
from deephaven import ui, empty_table

my_tabs_basic = ui.tabs(
    ui.tab("Hello World!", title="Tab 1"),
    ui.tab(
        ui.flex(
            "Hello World with table!",
            empty_table(10).update("I=i"),
        ),
        title="Tab 2",
    ),
)
```

## UI Recommendations

1. Use tabs to organize sections of equal importance. Avoid using tabs for content with varying levels of importance.
2. Use a vertical tabs layout when displaying shortcuts to sections of content on a single page.
3. Avoid nesting tabs more than two levels deep, as it can become overly complicated.

## Content

> Tabs can be created using `ui.tab`, or usiing `ui.tab_list` and `ui.tab_panels`, but not the two options combined. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tabs can be created using `ui.tab`, or using `ui.tab_list` with `ui.tab_panels`, but not the two options combined. 
```

To prevent this automatic selection change, the `keyboard_activation` prop can be set to "manual".

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_tabs_keyboard_activation_example = ui.tabs(
    ui.tab("Arma virumque cano, Troiae qui primus ab oris.", title="Founding of Rome"),
    ui.tab("Senatus Populusque Romanus.", title="Monarchy and Republic"),
    ui.tab("Alea jacta est.", title="Empire"),
    keyboard_activation="manual",
)
```

## Density

By default, the density of the tab list is "compact". To change this, the `density` prop can be set to "regular".

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_tabs_density_examples():
    return [
        ui.tabs(
            ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with John Doe.", title="John Doe"),
            ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with Jane Doe.", title="Jane Doe"),
            ui.tab(
                "There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.", title="Joe Bloggs"
            ),
            density="regular",
        ),
    ]

my_tabs_density_examples = ui_tabs_density_examples()
```

## Quiet State

> The `is_quiet` prop makes tabs "quiet" by removing the line separating the tab titles' and panel contents. This can be useful when the tabs should not distract users from surrounding content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `is_quiet` prop makes tabs "quiet" by removing the line separating the tab titles and panel contents. This can be useful when the tabs should not distract users from surrounding content.
```

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_tabs_is_quiet_example = ui.tabs(
    ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with John Doe.", title="John Doe"),
    ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with Jane Doe.", title="Jane Doe"),
    ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.", title="Joe Bloggs"),
    is_quiet=True,
)
```

## Disabled state

The `is_disabled` prop disables the tabs component to prevent user interaction. This is useful when tabs should be visible but not available for selection.

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_tabs_is_disabled_example = ui.tabs(
    ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with John Doe.", title="John Doe"),
    ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with Jane Doe.", title="Jane Doe"),
    ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.", title="Joe Bloggs"),
    is_disabled=True,
)
```

## Orientation

> By default, tabs are horizontally oriented. To have tabs be vertically orientated, the `orientation` prop can be set to "vertical".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, tabs are horizontally oriented. To change the tabs' orientation, set the `orientation` prop to "vertical".
```

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_tabs_orientation_examples():
    return [
        ui.tabs(
            ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with John Doe.", title="John Doe"),
            ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with Jane Doe.", title="Jane Doe"),
            ui.tab(
                "There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.", title="Joe Bloggs"
            ),
            orientation="vertical",
        ),
        ui.tabs(
            ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with John Doe.", title="John Doe"),
            ui.tab("There is no prior chat history with Jane Doe.", title="Jane Doe"),
            ui.tab(
                "There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.", title="Joe Bloggs"
            ),
        ),
    ]

my_tabs_orientation_examples = ui_tabs_orientation_examples()
```

## Overflow behaviour

If there isn't enough horizontal space to render all tabs on a single line, the component will automatically collapse all tabs into a Picker. 

> Note this only occurs when tabs have a horizontal orientation; for vertical orientation of tabs, the list continues to extend downwards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that this only occurs when tabs are horizontally oriented; when tabs are vertically oriented, the list continues to extend downwards.
```
